docs: add beta agent pre-run script page (#631)
tembo/docs: beta/agent-pre-run-script.mdx

---

> title: "Agent pre-run script"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Agent post-trigger hooks"
```

description: "Run a custom setup script before an agent starts."
hidden: true
---

<Note>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Note>

> Agent pre-run scripts let you run a Bash script in the sandbox before an agent starts. Use them when an agent needs repository setup, generated files, dependency checks, or environment preparation that should happen after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered Agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the Agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the Agent from running.
```

## Prerequisites

- Agent pre-run scripts must be enabled for your workspace.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

> - The script must be safe to run in the agent sandbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
```

## Configure a pre-run script

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add your Bash script in the pre-run script field.
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## Example

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

npm ci
npm run generate

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## Generic Example

```bash
# Require an environment variable to be set
[ -n "$API_TOKEN" ] || exit 1

# Run scripts
./scripts/check-preconditions.sh
```

## Example: Agent triggered from a Linear issue

When an Agent is tagged in a Linear issue, it starts with only that issue's title and description. Use post-trigger hooks to fetch surrounding context it would
otherwise be missing.

```bash
# Parent issue and sub-issues, so the Agent understands the larger scope
linear issue view "$LINEAR_ISSUE_ID" --json parent,children > .tembo/issue-tree.json

# Any branch or PR already associated with the issue
gh pr list --search "$LINEAR_ISSUE_ID" --json number,title,url,files > .tembo/existing-prs.json
```
````

## How output affects the agent

> When the script succeeds, Tembo passes its output to the agent as pre-run context. The agent can use that output to understand what setup completed, which files changed, or what checks already ran.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the script succeeds, Tembo passes its output to the agent as pre-run context. The agent uses that output to seed the Agent run.
```

> When the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required setup or validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.
```

---
title: "Agent post-trigger hooks"
description: "Run a custom setup script before an agent starts."
hidden: true
---

<Note>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Note>

Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered Agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the Agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the Agent from running.

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots]() instead.
</Note>

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots]() instead.
</Note>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots]() instead.
</Note>

```

---
title: "Agent post-trigger hooks"
description: "Run a custom setup script before an agent starts."
hidden: true
---

<Note>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Note>

Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered Agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the Agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the Agent from running.

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots]() instead.
</Note>

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots]() instead.

> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
